source/current-student-resources.md, before:

---
pagetitle: "Grad Student Resources"
language: en
---

## Columbia EEE Graduate Student Resources


This website is provided for EEE students, by EEE students. Please see
the links below for resources and information for current students.

-   [2020 EEE Ph.D. Orientation
    Slides](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1-cW1Rgtk-prQiiB6mQUxH6fGwDnEpbnf/view?usp=sharing) -
    put together by Chae (thanks!): thorough documentation on Ph.D.
    program requirements, teaching, and funding opportunities.
-   [EEE Working Orientation
    Document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/15XLTX804nb2GqjX6Kyi9Y8hvwzYY8rXKRRRxKpaKTIQ/edit) -
    this is the place to document changes to the program, and also the
    source of the most up to date information on program requirements.
    Every year, updated orientation slides will be built from this
    document.
-   [EEE PhD Student
    Resources](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1G9RP-Xpefz0XbgiVjvUEUR8BPmGeOqkGRgEAM-SHsbk) -
    contact information of EEE graduate students, as well as general
    resources for students.
-   [EEE Ph.D. Resource
    Folder](https://drive.google.com/open?id=16vFLRhV8zds_UYv3W_SXswAD45no8QEu) -
    folder for any materials that do not fit into the above Google Doc.
-   [EEE Graduate Student Inclusion and Anti-Racism
    Resources](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1vIPLfSkA6XfdMGeDzCCie-P64uCCdM9KRt-2Kk65opE/edit?usp=sharing) -
    resources on combating racism and bias, and promoting inclusion
    within EEE.
-   [EEE observed and experienced acts of
    exclusion](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdR1lVWkQGeObLfnAO-PTuud9QCJEtHjJwfovjQGg-ejh5Mew/viewform?usp=sf_link) -
    an anonymous form to report any observed or experienced acts of
    exclusion. If you wish, one of Ian, Kinnari, Chae, or Adam will talk
    to the people causing the exclusion, with the goal of correcting in
    in the future. We want EEE\'s impact to match its intention of
    being an inclusive community. Also, if anonymity is not important to
    you, and/or you would like to discuss in person, you can reach out
    to Ian (ihb2106), Kinnari (kms2313), Chae (cj2563), and/or Adam
    (akm2203) directly to talk.


**Contributions are enthusiastically encouraged!** A good first
contribution is to add your name and contact information to the
[EEE-PhD-Student-Resources](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1G9RP-Xpefz0XbgiVjvUEUR8BPmGeOqkGRgEAM-SHsbk)
document. Please feel free to add comments or content to any and all
Google Docs/Drive folders!

Commit message:

update prospective student resources, add movies link

source/current-student-resources.md, after:

---
pagetitle: "Grad Student Resources"
language: en
---

### Columbia EEE Graduate Student Resources


This website is provided for EEE students, by EEE students. Please see
the links below for resources and information for current students.

-   [2020 EEE Ph.D. Orientation
    Slides](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1-cW1Rgtk-prQiiB6mQUxH6fGwDnEpbnf/view?usp=sharing) -
    put together by Chae (thanks!): thorough documentation on Ph.D.
    program requirements, teaching, and funding opportunities.
-   [EEE Working Orientation
    Document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/15XLTX804nb2GqjX6Kyi9Y8hvwzYY8rXKRRRxKpaKTIQ/edit) -
    this is the place to document changes to the program, and also the
    source of the most up to date information on program requirements.
    Every year, updated orientation slides will be built from this
    document.
-   [EEE PhD Student
    Resources](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1G9RP-Xpefz0XbgiVjvUEUR8BPmGeOqkGRgEAM-SHsbk) -
    contact information of EEE graduate students, as well as general
    resources for students.
-   [EEE Ph.D. Resource
    Folder](https://drive.google.com/open?id=16vFLRhV8zds_UYv3W_SXswAD45no8QEu) -
    folder for any materials that do not fit into the above Google Doc.
-   [EEE Graduate Student Inclusion and Anti-Racism
    Resources](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1vIPLfSkA6XfdMGeDzCCie-P64uCCdM9KRt-2Kk65opE/edit?usp=sharing) -
    resources on combating racism and bias, and promoting inclusion
    within EEE.
-   [EEE observed and experienced acts of
    exclusion](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdR1lVWkQGeObLfnAO-PTuud9QCJEtHjJwfovjQGg-ejh5Mew/viewform?usp=sf_link) -
    an anonymous form to report any observed or experienced acts of
    exclusion. If you wish, one of Ian, Kinnari, Chae, or Adam will
    talk to the people causing the exclusion, with the goal of
    correcting it in the future. We want EEE\'s impact to match its
    intention of being an inclusive community. Also, if anonymity is
    not important to you, and/or you would like to discuss in person,
    you can reach out to Ian (ihb2106), Kinnari (kms2313), Chae
    (cj2563), and/or Adam (akm2203) directly to talk.


**Contributions are enthusiastically encouraged!** A good first
contribution is to add your name and contact information to the
[EEE-PhD-Student-Resources](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1G9RP-Xpefz0XbgiVjvUEUR8BPmGeOqkGRgEAM-SHsbk)
document. Please feel free to add comments or content to any and all
Google Docs/Drive folders!

### General Columbia Resources

- **Movies!!** (and some TV). Unknown to many, Columbia library
  provides access to a ton of streaming services. The [list is
  available
  here](https://guides.library.columbia.edu/c.php?g=957347&p=6910938). They
  are all great, but the following are particularly broad in offerings:

    - [Alexander Street](https://video.alexanderstreet.com/)
    - [Feature films for
      education](https://clio.columbia.edu/catalog/14965385)
    - [Swank Digital
      Campus](https://clio.columbia.edu/catalog/14288290)
    - [World Cinema on
      Demand](https://digital.films.com/p_Search.aspx?st=adv&rd=title&sid=1709&sortby=Relevance&type=browse&level=Subject)

  Put all together, it's a pretty expansive collection from
  blockbusters to docs to foreign films to art films.
