source/index.md, before:

---
pagetitle: "EEE Graduate student resources"
language: en
---

This is a website of resources created and managed by Earth and
Environmental Engineering (EEE) graduate students at Columbia
University.

### Menu

- [Resources for current Enviornmental Engineering grad students](current-student-resources.md)
- [TA resources](ta-resources.md) (password protected; if you are a TA
  email Adam (uni:akm2203) for the password)
- [Resources for prospective Environmental Engineering students](prospective-student-resources.md)

#### Feedback and Contributions

We are hoping to continually refine the website structure and content,
so feedback and ideas for more content are very welcome. Please email
[Adam](http://www.columbia.edu/~akm2203/) (akm2203@columbia.edu) if
you have any questions or comments. Or even better yet, if you would
like to edit the website directly, please see the [source on
Github](https://github.com/massma/eee-grad-website). (and if you have
questions on how to edit the website source, Adam is happy to walk you
through that).

Commit message:

reconnect seminar series and add seminar contributors

source/index.md, after:

---
pagetitle: "EEE Graduate student resources"
language: en
---

This is a website of resources created and managed by Earth and
Environmental Engineering (EEE) graduate students at Columbia
University.

### Menu

- [Resources for current Enviornmental Engineering grad students](current-student-resources.md)
- [TA resources](ta-resources.md) (password protected; if you are a TA
  email Adam (uni:akm2203) for the password)
- [2021 Summer Seminar Series](seminar-series.md) - this is a seminar
  series for early career researchers (Ph.D. students and post
  docs). Speakers will be selected through an application process.
- [Resources for prospective Environmental Engineering students](prospective-student-resources.md)

#### Feedback and Contributions

We are hoping to continually refine the website structure and content,
so feedback and ideas for more content are very welcome. Please email
[Adam](http://www.columbia.edu/~akm2203/) (akm2203@columbia.edu) if
you have any questions or comments. Or even better yet, if you would
like to edit the website directly, please see the [source on
Github](https://github.com/massma/eee-grad-website). (and if you have
questions on how to edit the website source, Adam is happy to walk you
through that).
