source/seminar-series.md, before:

---
pagetitle: "Columbia EEE Summer Seminar Series"
language: en
---

### Columbia University Environmental Engineering Summer Seminar Series

For 2021, we are pleased to introduce the inaugural Earth and
Environmental Engineering Summer Seminar Series at Columbia
University. This graduate student-run seminar series **hosts early
career researchers (Ph.D. students and recent Ph.D. graduates [within
5 years and without a tenure-track appointment]).**

The goals of this seminar series are to:

- Represent the emerging diversity in our field.
- Share new ideas and build community between students based here in
  out department and researchers around the globe.
- Provide a space for young, innovative, and open-minded researchers
  to participate in a seminar series. Many other seminar series tend
  to invite senior researchers, and we are excited to host and engage
  with a seminar series that breaks from that tradition. Inspirations
  include the [Distinguished Young Scholars
  Seminar](http://depts.washington.edu/dyss/index.html) hosted by the
  University of Washington's Chemical Engineering department, and the
  [Graduate Climate
  Conference](https://pcc.uw.edu/events/graduate-climate-conference/).

If you are interested in speaking during the seminar series, **please
fill out [this short
application](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1x05IPe6zoQbrJ5OSldxM5aMGrGUGwOI1Ex4qCCRw914)**. Applicants
will be selected based on clarity in posing a scientific problem of
interest to our department’s core research areas (energy, water, and
sustainable materials), as well as service and broader impacts. Our
motivation for the open application is to insure that seminar speakers
are not limited to those already in our professional and social
networks. We are especially interested in hearing from young
researchers of diverse backgrounds. Members of underrepresented groups
in STEM are highly encouraged to submit an application. While our
active research areas include **energy** (renewable energy and grid
integration, electrochemical energy storage, carbon capture
utilization and storage), **water** (climate and risk mitigation of
water systems, desalination, biological waste water treatment, global
hydrology and land-atmosphere interactions) and **sustainable
materials** (recycling and reuse, rare earth element extraction,
climate and water risks associated with mining operations), we
additionally welcome submissions from related fields in environmental
impacts and environmental science.

Speakers will be selected and notified in late April/early May, and
presentations will be scheduled for June-early August 2021, over
Zoom. For the selected speakers, potential benefits of participation
include:

- An intimate venue to give a "seminar"-type presentation.
- Feedback from graduate and undergraduate students (optional but
  available if the speaker would value it).
- An opportunity to make meaningful connections with fellow young
  researchers based in our department.
- An official "invited-speaker" invitation to present in the seminar
  series.

If you have any questions please reach out to Adam Massmann
(akm2203@columbia.edu) and/or Sara Hamilton
(sth2128@columbia.edu).

Commit message:

reconnect seminar series and add seminar contributors

source/seminar-series.md, after:

---
pagetitle: "Columbia EEE Summer Seminar Series"
language: en
---

### Columbia University Environmental Engineering Summer Seminar Series

For 2021, we are pleased to introduce the inaugural Earth and
Environmental Engineering Summer Seminar Series at Columbia
University. This graduate student-run seminar series **hosts early
career researchers (Ph.D. students and recent Ph.D. graduates [within
5 years and without a tenure-track appointment]).**

The goals of this seminar series are to:

- Represent the emerging diversity in our field.
- Share new ideas and build community between students based here in
  our department and researchers around the globe.
- Provide a space for young, innovative, and open-minded researchers
  to participate in a seminar series. Many other seminar series tend
  to invite senior researchers, and we are excited to host and engage
  with a seminar series that breaks from that tradition. Inspirations
  include the [Distinguished Young Scholars
  Seminar](http://depts.washington.edu/dyss/index.html) hosted by the
  University of Washington's Chemical Engineering department, and the
  [Graduate Climate
  Conference](https://pcc.uw.edu/events/graduate-climate-conference/).

If you are interested in speaking during the seminar series, **please
fill out [this short
application](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1x05IPe6zoQbrJ5OSldxM5aMGrGUGwOI1Ex4qCCRw914)**. Applicants
will be selected based on clarity in posing a scientific problem of
interest to our department’s core research areas (energy, water, and
sustainable materials), as well as service and broader impacts. Our
motivation for the open application is to insure that seminar speakers
are not limited to those already in our professional and social
networks. We are especially interested in hearing from young
researchers of diverse backgrounds. Members of underrepresented groups
in STEM are highly encouraged to submit an application. While our
active research areas include **energy** (renewable energy and grid
integration, energy storage, carbon capture utilization and storage),
**water** (climate and risk mitigation of water systems, hydrology and
land-atmosphere interactions, desalination, drinking water and
wastewater treatment) and **sustainable materials** (recycling and
reuse, sustainable mining, climate and water risks associated with
mining operations), we welcome submissions from related fields in
environmental impacts and environmental science.

Speakers will be selected and notified in late April/early May, and
presentations will be scheduled for June-early August 2021, over
Zoom. For the selected speakers, potential benefits of participation
include:

- An intimate venue to give a "seminar"-type presentation.
- Feedback from graduate and undergraduate students (optional but
  available if the speaker would value it).
- An opportunity to make meaningful connections with fellow young
  researchers in our department.
- An official "invited-speaker" invitation to present in the seminar
  series.

If you have any questions please reach out to Adam Massmann
(akm2203@columbia.edu) and/or Sara Hamilton
(sth2128@columbia.edu). This seminar series is organized by:

- Sara Hamilton
- Adam Massmann
- Chae Jeong-Potter
- Ian Billinge
- Monica Abdallah
