---
pagetitle: "Kogler: Waste to Value: Benchmarking and Advancing Electrochemical Nitrogen Recovery from Wastewater"
language: en
---

#### August 12: Anna Kogler: "Waste to Value: Benchmarking and Advancing Electrochemical Nitrogen Recovery from Wastewater"

Nitrogen discharges via untreated wastewater or from wastewater
treatment plants to the environment cause widespread eutrophication,
harming aquatic life and resulting in economic losses. Conventional
nitrogen removal from wastewater can prevent these negative impacts
but requires substantial energy and chemical inputs. Meanwhile,
synthesis of ammonia via the Haber-Bosch process has a substantial
environmental footprint, and 4.5 billion people worldwide lack access
to adequate sanitation. Recovering nitrogen for beneficial reuse in a
circular economy could offset chemical production, reduce impacts of
wastewater treatment and chemical manufacturing, and generate revenue
to finance the expansion of sanitation systems. I conducted a
literature review of nutrient technologies to propose a framework for
standardized reporting and comparison of technologies and to
prioritize research objectives. Comparing peer-reviewed literature
with practitioner needs revealed misalignment between academic
research and practice. Synthesizing barriers to adoption and knowledge
gaps reported in literature and by practitioners, I proposed a
research agenda addressing the most reported gaps (e.g., underlying
process mechanisms, scale-up) and emphasizing rigorous investigations
of systems-level impacts and product-market fit. This literature
review guides my work on flexible electrochemical stripping (FECS),
which achieves customizable acidic ammonium sulfate and alkaline
ammonia recovery. Considering global applications, I investigate FECS
for fecal sludge treatment in partnership with Delvic Sanitation
Initiatives in Dakar, Senegal. The results of my literature review and
process development will ultimately accelerate implementation for
resource-efficient nutrient management.

**All seminars begin at 11:00 a.m. Eastern Daylight Time
(UTC-04:00).**
