---
pagetitle: "Chavez: Engineering Energy Flow in Hybrid Plasmonic Systems"
language: en
---

#### July 15: Steven Chavez: "Engineering Energy Flow in Hybrid Plasmonic Systems"

Plasmonic metal nanostructures (e.g. nanoparticles of Ag, Au, and Cu)
have emerged as an important class of optically active materials
because of their ability to interact strongly with visible light
through the creation of surface plasmons. These collective electron
oscillations can decay within the metal nanoparticles to form
energetic charge carriers (i.e. electron-hole pairs). Recently,
researchers have been asking whether it is possible to extract these
charge carriers from photoexcited plasmonic nanoparticles to enable
high efficiency solar energy conversion systems such as
plasmon-enhanced photovoltaics or photocatalysis. Unfortunately, the
fast thermalization of these charge carriers (~femtoseconds) within
the plasmonic material greatly limits the efficiency of charge carrier
extraction, and consequently the number of viable applications for
plasmonic nanomaterials.

Herein, I discuss my work in the emerging field of hybrid plasmonics
related to the extraction of photogenerated charge carriers from
plasmonic nanostructures. I demonstrate that the extraction of charge
carriers from plasmonic materials is attainable by interfacing them
with non-plasmonic materials (e.g. semiconductors, molecules or
metals). I use experimental and computational methods to reveal that
the generation of charge carriers in the presence of a non-plasmonic
material is governed by: (1) the intensity of the electric field
generated by the plasmonic nanostructure, and (2) the availability of
direct, electronic excitations in the non-plasmonic material. I then
propose a unifying physical framework that leads us towards molecular
control of charge carrier generation in all multicomponent plasmonic
systems, which enables the design of highly efficient solar energy
conversion technologies.

**All seminars begin at 11:00 a.m. Eastern Daylight Time
(UTC-04:00).**
