---
pagetitle: "Agarwal: A More Efficient Vanadium Based Redox Flow Battery with Enhanced V2+/V3+ Charge Transfer"
language: en
---

#### June 24: Harsh Agarwal: "A More Efficient Vanadium Based Redox Flow Battery with Enhanced V2+/V3+ Charge Transfer"

Integrating renewables like solar and wind to meet the growing
electricity demand has led to a search for low-cost electricity
storage technologies. Vanadium redox flow batteries (VRFBs) are a
promising technology to store electricity, but they suffer from high
costs in part arising from the slow kinetics of the V2+/V3+ reaction
at the negative electrode, preventing VRFBs from large scale
deployment. The lack of fundamental understanding of the V2+/V3+
reaction has hindered the design of electrolytes and electrocatalysts
to increase the reaction rate. In this talk, I will discuss our
efforts in understanding V2+/V3+ reaction mechanism by a combination
of kinetic measurements, microkinetic modeling, and spectroscopic
techniques. We measure V2+/V3+ reaction kinetics in carefully chosen
electrolytes on different electrocatalysts under controlled conditions
(electrochemically active surface area, mass transfer, etc.) to
develop a simplistic microkinetic model explaining the observed
behavior We identify the structure of the reacting species in solution
by Extended X-Ray Absorption and UV-Vis Spectroscopy, and detect the
structure of adsorbed intermediate by Surface Enhanced Raman
Spectroscopy. Finally, we show that the V2+/V3+ reaction kinetics is
correlated to energy of the identified adsorbed vanadium
intermediate. This work can be utilized to engineer the electrolyte
and electrocatalysts with optimum vanadium intermediate adsorption
energy to enhance V2+/V3+ charge transfer, aiding to the development
of cheaper and more efficient VRFBs for large scale energy storage.

**All seminars begin at 11:00 a.m. Eastern Daylight Time
(UTC-04:00).**
