---
pagetitle: "Kerins: Climate as the predominate driver for carbon levels in the Rocky Mountains"
language: en
---

#### August 19: Devon Kerins: "Climate as the predominate driver for carbon levels in the Rocky Mountains"

Mountains are water towers for billions and are experiencing more
rapid warming than lowland places. Although it is known warming will
intensify aridity and droughts in these areas, little is known about
how chemistry will respond, partly due to scarce and inconsistent
temporal data in remote mountains. This work used the space-for-time
approach and analyzed long-term average carbon levels across sites of
elevation from 965m-3646m in the United States Rocky Mountain
region. We focus on dissolved organic and inorganic carbon (DOC &
DIC), solutes important as water quality measures as well as
indicators of soil respiration and carbon cycles. Both temperature and
soil moisture influence their production via soil respiration and
their lateral transport can emit notable amounts of CO2 to the
atmosphere. Unfortunately, the interrelation between DOC, DIC, and
soil respiration is rarely studied, leaving little consensus on how a
changing climate may modify DOC and DIC levels. Results show average
DOC and DIC concentrations are predominantly regulated by mean
discharge and are higher under more arid and warmer conditions. A
simple one-box model describing steady state concentration as a
function of reaction rate and average discharge captures this trend of
increasing concentration with decreasing discharge. Additionally, a
positive correlation between concentrations of DOC and DIC among sites
implies respiration is likely the main source of both carbon
components. Indicating advancing warming, aridity, and drought can
lead to higher soil respiration, possibly providing positive
carbon-climate feedback. Additionally, the simple model indicates DOC
and DIC in mountain streams will likely increase, imposing challenges
in water treatment and changes of downstream aquatic ecosystems.

**All seminars begin at 11:00 a.m. Eastern Daylight Time
(UTC-04:00).**
