---
pagetitle: "Rodriguez: Assessing and Addressing Chemical Risk in Water Reuse and Resource Recovery"
language: en
---

#### August 5: Enrique Rodriguez: "Assessing and Addressing Chemical Risk in Water Reuse and Resource Recovery"

Source separation of urine presents a viable way to produce
sustainable fertilizer while reducing water consumption and energy
costs at water resource recovery facilities (WRRFs); additionally,
separating urine at the source diverts a concentrated stream of
micropollutants that can be difficult to address in WRRFs and water
reuse facilities. However, several stakeholdersâ€™ expressed concerns
over the possibility of consuming crops contaminated with
pharmaceuticals stemming from urine-derived fertilizers (UDFs). The
overarching goal of this research was to assess and address chemical
risks associated with wastewater recycling and the use of source
separated urine as a fertilizer. Our results indicate that
experimental intake fractions and exposure quotients of
pharmaceuticals in lettuce grown by UDFs are less than 1%, suggesting
limited risk from consumption of UDF grown crops. Our research on
removing pharmaceuticals from the concentrated urine stream
demonstrates that plasma oxidation is a viable treatment
strategy. Specifically, our results show that plasma oxidation
provides consistent removal across different urine matrixes. These
research projects focused on a subset of organic chemicals present in
urine; however, there are large quantities of chemicals of concern
that are present in urine and wastewater that are not captured in
targeted studies. We implemented cell-based bioassays to supplement
existing chemical monitoring methods by screening for several chemical
classes by their specific toxic modes of action. I will discuss the
implications this research has in other areas where trace organic
contaminants are of interest, such as indirect potable reuse
scenarios.

**All seminars begin at 11:00 a.m. Eastern Daylight Time
(UTC-04:00).**
