---
pagetitle: "Oyakhire: Understanding and Controlling the Electrodeposition of Lithium Metal Using Atomic Layer Deposition"
language: en
---

#### July 8: Solomon Oyakhire, "Understanding and Controlling the Electrodeposition of Lithium Metal Using Atomic Layer Deposition"

The implementation of lithium metal batteries is hindered by the
difficulty in controlling the Li metal plating microstructure. Ex-situ
solid-electrolyte interphases (SEIs) have been shown to curtail the
electrochemical instabilities of lithium, and atomic layer deposition
(ALD) is useful for the synthesis of ex-situ thin-film SEIs such as
Al2O3 and alucone. However, these ALD-grown SEIs become delaminated as
a result of their innate resistance to the cyclic shuttling of Li
ions, resulting in marginal performance benefits.

Herein, we report the use of ALD-grown TiO2 as a nucleation layer,
rather than as an artificial SEI. We show that by depositing TiO2
directly on the Cu current collector, we can control the deposition
morphology of Li in the widely studied ether-based electrolyte - 1M
LiTFSi in an equal volume mixture of 1,3 dioxolane and 1,2
dimethoxyethane, with 1 weight percent of lithium nitrate as an
additive. By optimizing the thickness of TiO2, we show that lithium
nucleates into large deposits under reduced overpotential, resulting
in a reduction in contact surface area with the electrolyte and an
increase in cell performance. Furthermore, we report substantial
improvements in cycling reversibility with an average Coulombic
efficiency of 96% after 150 cycles at 1mA cm-2 in Li/Cu cells. The
performance of the TiO2 film, and the origin of its effects as
established by spectroscopy and microscopy techniques, will be
reported and discussed.

**All seminars begin at 11:00 a.m. Eastern Daylight Time
(UTC-04:00).**
