---
pagetitle: "Onuoha: Technology for Small-Scale Wind-Powered Ammonia Synthesis"
language: en
---

#### July 29: Chinomso Onuoha: "Technology for Small-Scale Wind-Powered Ammonia Synthesis"

Ammonia is one of the most produced commodity chemicals in the
world. It is responsible for producing fertilizer required for global
food production as well as a variety of specialty chemicals from
explosives, to electrolyte for batteries, food additives and
analytical reagents. The present conventional method (Haber-Bosch) to
produce ammonia is unsustainable considering its large energy utility
as well as greenhouse gas emissions. The availability of renewable
resources like wind or solar energy, provides an opportunity to
synthesize ammonia without carbon footprint. The intermittent nature
of wind availability coupled with its co-location with high fertilizer
demand, give rise to the idea of ammonia synthesis at small,
distributed scale close to the end user. There is a growing interest
in this method of ammonia synthesis as excess renewable energy can be
stored as ammonia and converted back into electricity during periods
of high-power demand. Renewable ammonia synthesis has the potential to
be more sustainable than the current method based on fossil-fuels but
is currently expensive. In order to reduce the cost of small-scale
renewable ammonia production, process enhancement is needed. One of
such developments led by researchers at the University of Minnesota,
is replacing the separation by condensation with reactive absorption
using metal halides. Although this method of ammonia separation is
more efficient and can be employed closer to the reaction conditions,
the absorbent material is unstable and shows decreasing capacity with
prolonged usage. There is therefore need for investigation of
structural and chemical properties that influence this stability and
enhance the performance of the absorbent material.

**All seminars begin at 11:00 a.m. Eastern Daylight Time
(UTC-04:00).**
