---
pagetitle: "Zhu: Electrochemical Hydrogen Peroxide Generation for Advanced Oxidation Process"
language: en
---


#### June 10: Qianhong Zhu: "Electrochemical Hydrogen Peroxide Generation for Advanced Oxidation Process"

Advanced oxidation processes (AOPs) target the chemical destruction of
a wide range of non-biodegradable, toxic, and recalcitrant organic
pollutants instead of removal via physical separation, which produces
contaminant-laden concentrates or solids. Hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) is
the most widely used precursor that produces highly reactive and
nonselective hydroxyl radical at the site of AOP through the
activation by UV irradiation. The potential for AOPs to meet the
growing demand of transforming centralized treatment and distribution
practice into modular, small-scale, and decentralized treatment
paradigm can be maximized by innovative technologies that can
synthesize precursor chemicals also at the site of water treatment,
eliminating the need for continuous chemical supply.

In this seminar, I will present an electrochemical H2O2 generation
cell that produces a large quantity of H2O2 while consuming only 0.2
to 20% of the total electricity consumption of AOPs in various AOP
application scenarios employing UV activation. A high electrochemical
H2O2 production efficiency is achieved by synthesizing an
anthraquinone-modified polyaniline composite that enables efficient
two-electron oxygen reduction reaction. Polyaniline functions as a
conductive support with abundant attachment sites, and anthraquinone
ensures the selective H2O2 generation. H2O2 production capability of
the device is further examined with simulated drinking water and
wastewater as feed electrolytes to demonstrate its potential for
real-world operation scenarios.

**All seminars begin at 11:00 a.m. Eastern Daylight Time
(UTC-04:00).**
