---
pagetitle: "Adejumo: Quantification of disinfection byproducts in gastrointestinal tract culture: Characterization and control of biological matrix effects"
language: en
---

#### July 22: Hollie Adejumo: "Quantification of disinfection byproducts in gastrointestinal tract culture: Characterization and control of biological matrix effects"

Water disinfection processes play an essential role in protecting
public health.  The addition of disinfectants, such as chlorine and
chloramine, prevent pathogen regrowth in water distribution systems.
Nevertheless, disinfectants can react with organic matter to produce
disinfection byproducts (DBPs), which pose several deleterious health
effects.  Accordingly, the U.S. EPA has established regulations for 11
DBPs.  Nevertheless, growing evidence suggests that regulated DBPs
account for less than two percent of total DBPs.  Further, unregulated
DBPs, such as haloacetonitriles (HANs), are more toxic than many
regulated DBPs.  To assess DBP toxicity, cell- and animal-based assays
are traditionally employed.  Nevertheless, these models do not fully
capture human complexities.  To determine the health implications of
DBP exposure, this study involves creating a human-species specific
model for investigating chemical fate and biotransformation
post-ingestion.  The primary objective of this study is to determine
fate of four HANs in a simulated human gut culture.  As a first step,
we will seed small (ca. 25 mL) continuous flow, anaerobic culture
chambers with human fecal specimens and then add known HAN
concentrations.  We will employ liquid-liquid-extraction and GC-EI-MS
to quantify HAN concentrations in culture.  We hypothesized that
matrix interferences may result in signal inhibition.  We will report
on the methodâ€™s performance in complex biomatrices.  We expect the
results to indicate that sample preparation strategies can control
matrix effects and allow analyte detection at low levels.  The results
of this study will provide a novel analytical technique for
identifying underlying mechanisms for toxic effects following DBP
exposure.

**All seminars begin at 11:00 a.m. Eastern Daylight Time
(UTC-04:00).**
